Sangkuriang Story
The legend tells that, long ago, there lived a beautiful woman named Dayang Sumbi, the daughter of the king of Sumbing Perbangkara. Her beautiful face made Dayang Sumbi contested by the princes.
As a princess from the kingdom, Dayang Sumbi has a weaving hobby. One time, when she was busy weaving cloth, suddenly her loom fell. Instead of taking it herself, Dayang Sumbi said an oath: if the one who took the loom were a man, then she would take him as her husband, but if the one who took the loom were a woman, she would make her a sister.
Unexpectedly, sometime later, there came a male dog named Si Tumang, which brought Dayang Sumbi’s loom. Finally, to fulfill her oath, Dayang Sumbi married Tumang (long story short, Tumang was a god who was expelled from heaven). From that marriage, a son named Sangkuriang was born.
Time went on until Sangkuriang grew into a handsome boy. One day, Sangkuriang found out that his mother wanted to eat a deer’s liver. Sangkuriang also hunted into the forest with Tumang. While hunting, Sangkuriang felt upset because he hadn’t successfully hunted any animals. Then, he decided to kill Tumang and gave Tumang’s heart to his mother.
Moments later, Dayang Sumbi found out that Sangkuriang had killed Tumang. Furiously, Dayang Sumbi hit Sangkuriang’s head and threw him out of the house.
Years later, Sangkuriang, who was kicked out of the house, had grown into a handsome man. While Dayang Sumbi remained young, this was because at that time Dayang Sumbi ate Tumang’s liver. One day, Sangkuriang met Dayang Sumbi again, and they fell in love with each other.
Dayang Sumbi, who finally found out that the young man was her biological son who had been expelled for years, insisted on refusing and decided on Sangkuriang to do an impossible assignment.
Dayang Sumbi said that if Sangkuriang wanted to marry her, he had to build a big boat in just one night. Sangkuriang also agreed. With the help of the spirits, Sangkuriang almost succeeded in the task before dawn.
However, Dayang Sumbi did not remain silent. She and the women around her pounded the mortar and made it look like the dawn had come. The spirits fled, so Sangkuriang failed to finish his boat. This made Sangkuriang furious and kicked the boat upside down. The overturned boat is now known as Mount Tangkuban Perahu.
